Last time on Sonic X,
a case of mistaken identity set
our speedy hero on the run.
His trouble doubled when a
robber ripped off an Emerald
and cameras showed a
hedgehog making the heist.
As the Project Shadow
investigation continued,
Sonic made a shocking discovery.
Sonic and Shadow went head-to-head in
a brutal battle with a chaotic finish.
Trapped by government forces,
Sonic surrendered and was
taken to Prison Island!
Will his friends find a way to free him?
Or will Sonic be locked away forever?
Find out next on Sonic X!
Go, go, go, go, go
Gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Movin' at the speed of sound,
quickest hedgehog around
Got ourselves a situation
Stuck in a new location
Without any explanation
No talk of relaxation
Don't, don't, don't
Don't blink, don't think
Just go, go, go, go
Go, go
Sonic is on the run
Sonic, he's number one
Sonic, he's coming next,
so watch out for Sonic X
- Gotta go fast
- Sonic
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go
Sonic X
Gotta go faster,
gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster
Sonic X
GUARD: Sonic's in the
underwater isolation cell!
It's impossible to escape from there,
and even if he could, where's
he gonna go once he breaks out?
Prison Island is surrounded by the sea.
There's no land for miles,
and everybody knows that
Sonic ain't no swimmer.
We got guards keeping lookout
in the towers 24 hours a day.
And the laser alarms will go off the second
they detect the slightest movement.
The entire prison is wired
with surveillance cameras,
metal detectors, and sound monitors.
Not even a fly could escape from here!
This place was built to hold the
toughest crooks in the world!
But in the all the years that
Prison Island's been in business,
there hasn't been one
single solitary breakout.
Hope Sonic likes it here,
cuz he ain't leavin'!
[Laughs]
Don't think of pulling any
funny stuff while I'm on duty.
Cuz I've got my eye on you, Sonic.
[Laughs]
GUARD 2: I'm sure Sonic is innocent.
But there's nothing I can do to help him.
Oh, well. If I can't get out of here,
I might as well kick back and relax.
We are still quite far from Prison Island,
but we can't take this motorboat in
any closer because of their radar.
Their security systems are so advanced,
that they would spot us long
before we reached the coast.
And if they do detect us,
they would send out armed boats
to intercept and arrest us.
So, what are we gonna do?
Luckily, I've thought up a
way to thwart their system.
It is high-tech, so we will fool
it using my low-tech solution.
They'll be looking for motorboats,
but this paddle boat will let
us duck under their radar.
Hmm.
[Panting]
I don't know about this, Mr. Tanaka.
I feel kind of goofy.
We can make it. We just
have to paddle faster.
[Panting increases]
Haa!
Sir, somebody is heading toward the island.
Really?
It looks like a giant... duck, sir.
That's no bird. It's a boat!
Somebody's tryin' to sneak onto the island!
They think they fooled us,
but I'll make sure they're
sunk before they reach land.
Do you really think a paddleboat
poses that much of a threat?
Who knows?
It's better to destroy 'em
first and ask questions later.
[Cackling]
What!
Sound the alarm!
We can't, sir.
The system's going haywire!
Call the cell blocks!
They're jamming our communications!
It's an attack!
Ooh hoo hoo hoo hoo!
He did it! He's back on Prison Island!
Dr. Eggman rules!
Alright!
[Both laugh]
I wonder if I'm pushing my luck,
breaking into the place a second time.
Perhaps.
The security on the island has been
upgraded since your last visit.
You must be careful.
When they restore communications,
they will send robots to stop your team.
Their robotic designs are greatly improved.
With their new defenses,
it will be almost impossible
to enter that compound again.
Well, nothing is going to
stop me from breaking in
and taking those Chaos Emeralds.
Shadow said I need to
obtain all seven Emeralds
in order to operate the Eclipse Cannon.
But are you sure it's worth the risk, Doctor?
[Evil chuckle]
Once I get that cannon working,
I'll be unstoppable!
[Evil laugh]
Okay, Eggy, fill 'em in.
According to Rouge,
the Chaos Emeralds are stored
in a vault inside the compound.
I must have them.
No problem. Just leave it to me.
Do not trust her!
She wants it for herself!
They get on my nerves.
Let's get down to the nitty-gritty, shall we?
In the first phase of my plan,
I'll go around the island wreaking havoc
and drawing the guards from their posts,
clearing the way for you
two to enter the compound.
Then, Shadow moves in.
He'll blow up the whole island by
sneaking into the weapons center
and setting off all the
ammunitions stored there
with this miniature detonation device.
Meanwhile, Rouge will
proceed to the warehouse
where the Chaos Emeralds are locked away,
and remove them.
We will then meet up at the rendezvous point
and make our escape.
We have exactly 30 minutes.
If you run into trouble,
you're on your own.
Let's go!
[Explosions]
[Missiles firing]
[Lasers blasting]
[Explosions]
[Lasers firing]
[Evil laughter]
Peek-a-boo! [Laughter]
[Explosion]
[Lasers firing]
[Explosions]
What's goin' on?
It looks like somebody's fighting.
We better get down there and find Sonic!
Ah! [Giggling]
Oh, Sonic. What a relief!
I came here to rescue you,
but you escaped all by yourself!
Sonic?
[Gasp]
Huh?
[Gasping]
You're not Sonic!
Who are you?
None of your business!
Now get lost!
Dr. Eggman!
[Gasp]
Shadow! Rouge!
Carry out your assignments!
I'll take care of you.
Keep away!
Amy!
I can't rescue Sonic 'til I
get Dr. Eggman out of the way.
This will send Tails into a tailspin!
[Missiles firing]
[Grunting]
He looks almost exactly like Sonic!
I wonder what he's doing here?
Don't worry, Sonic!
I'll find you! [Grunt]
Shadow will speed through the building
and sabotage the weapons center.
Meanwhile, Rouge will
sneak into the warehouse.
Once she gets in, she will
grab the Chaos Emeralds.
[Gasp]
I can feel those Emeralds here.
All I have to do is break into
the vault and help myself.
Ah!
Crackin' the code'll be a cinch.
[Labored breathing]
[Explosions]
[Lasers firing]
Take this!
He'll see. Tails can't outfox me!
Hey, Dr. Eggman, forget him!
You have more important things to do!
Stay focused!
I'll have to cross Tails another day.
[Yelling]
Now look, Tails.
Just because I'm leaving,
doesn't mean you win.
This is only a time out,
you hear me? A time out!
Huh?
Amy!
Where'd she go?
I have to see what Shadow
and Rouge are up to.
Don't worry. I'll be out
before you know it, buddy.
Sonic...
Ah ha!
Doctor, the detonator is ready to go,
but I need to know how
long to set the timer for.
DR. EGGMAN: Good work, Shadow.
You can set the detonator to
go off in exactly 15 minutes.
Will that be enough time for you, Rouge?
I can be out of here in five minutes, easy.
DR. EGGMAN: Alright, then. Set
the detonator for ten minutes!
Right, Doctor.
Woah!
Bet you're surprised here to see me!
I rushed here to rescue you
from this awful island.
Ya ready?
SECURITY: Intruder alert. Intruder alert.
GUARD: Gold Beetle! Go bug those bozos!
Flying Dog! Sniff 'em out!
[Laughs]
Flying Dog is the ultimate security robot.
Specially designed to fetch any trespasser!
Flying Dog will keep hounding
its prey until it's cornered.
And then it pounces,
decimating its foe with rabid ferocity!
But every trespasser
isn't dangerous, ya know?
My motto is, "Take no prisoners! We
have too many inmates here already!"
[Laughing]
I'll open your cell now.
You'd better step back, Sonic.
I wouldn't want you to get injured.
I don't know, Amy. These
bars are pretty strong.
Well, I happen to be pretty and strong, too!
Amy! Look out!
[Gasp]
Don't you know it's rude to
show up some place uninvited?
And don't bother me when
I'm trying to rescue Sonic!
Amy! That was great!
Now I'm gonna bash down the
bars of your cell, Sonic!
No, Amy! You can't do that!
Don't worry, Sonic.
My feelings for you will give
me the strength to free you!
But Amy, I let them drag me
to Prison Island on purpose
so that I could learn something
about my look-alike.
Your look-alike?
[Gasp]
You mean that creepy
hedgehog I thought was you?
Did ya see him?
Do ya know where he is now, Amy?
You really wanna know?
Yes, I do!
If I tell you,
will you finally take me
out to do something fun?
I don't have to!
Hmph! Why not?
What could be more fun than this?
My idea of fun is more like
going out to have a pizza,
or seeing a movie together.
But, since I like you,
I'll tell you that when
Tails and I landed here,
we saw a red and black
hedgehog near the entrance
being ordered around by Eggman.
I should've figured that Eggman
would be involved in this mess!
Have you been doing math on your wall?
That was there before.
Watch out, here I come!
I'm gonna need you to help hammer
our way out of this prison, Amy.
Let's go!
[Hammering]
[Thud]
Not bad, Amy.
[Giggling]
Sonic's out!
[Alarms sound]
[Groan] Now what?
It is too dangerous.
You stay here, and I will find Sonic.
Sorry, Mr. Tanaka.
I can't stay behind if Sonic's in danger.
[Struggling]
[Screaming]
I'm relieved to see you're safe, Sonic,
and Mr. Chris will be, too.
Shall we go?
Hi Tanaka! Long time no see!
How's everything going with Chris?
Can't we catch up on how our
friends are doing later, Amy?
He's right! You guys get moving.
I still have to track down my look-alike.
Oof!
But I wanna go with you!
Lovely!
Hello there!
I hope you didn't come here
to get my Emeralds back.
ROBOT: Intruder located.
Security units, proceed to Level 5.
Prepare to attack.
Halt.
Oof!
[Beeping]
Woah.
[Grunt]
Shadow? This is it.
I want answers.
Who are ya? And what are you up to?
You'll find out.
[Sounds of fighting]
Woah!
[Sigh]
And just when things were going so well.
[Beeping]
GUARD: Red alert!
An explosive device has been
detected in the security area!
Begin emergency evacuation immediately!
Repeat- begin emergency evacuation!
Mr. Chris! Where are you?
He's gone!
He must be on the island somewhere!
Huh?
I must go and find Mr. Chris, fast!
[Grunt] Mr. Chris!
Oof!
[Sounds of fighting]
Come in, Shadow.
Shadow, do you read me?
I have a little problem on my end.
I'm sort of locked inside the
vault with the Chaos Emeralds.
There's no way to open it from in here,
so I'm stuck.
SHADOW: I can't talk.
ROUGE: Huh?
SHADOW: I have to go, now!
You mean, you won't help me?
SHADOW: Not right at this second, no.
Uh! Oof!
You can't leave me!
Remember, I have the Emeralds.
I'm busy right now!
Oof!
Ugh!
Ugh.
I should've known not to count on
that shady character for any help.
Ha!
Oof!
[Panting]
Sonic!
[Long sigh]
I'm finished, and worse than that,
I'm losing three Emeralds, too!
[Beeping]
Shadow! Come in now! Shadow!
[Sounds of fighting]
DR. EGGMAN: Shadow! Where are you?
That detonator will go off any second!
You have to get off the island now,
or you're gonna be blown sky-high!
Do you read me?
Oh, no!
I'm not waiting for you and Rouge any longer.
You two are on your own.
I have to get everybody of the island!
[Panting]
I found him!
It's Sonic!
Huh? That's not Sonic.
Hmm. Hmm.
Maria...
When I found three Emeralds,
I thought this was my lucky day.
SHADOW: Rouge, this is Shadow. Come in.
I'm here!
SHADOW: Do you still have the Chaos Emeralds?
Of course I still have them.
SHADOW: I'll be right there to pick them up.
[Sigh]
He's coming for the Chaos Emeralds,
but what about me?
Dr. Eggman, I'm going back in
to pick up the Chaos Emeralds for you.
Huh...
[Beeping]
Shadow, promise me!
Yes, Maria.
You will be avenged!
Chaos Control!
Ah!
Shadow! He's the one they want!
Now I can prove Sonic's innocent!
Oof! Chris, wait!
Huh?
Oof!
Chris?
[Gasp] He is gone.
[Crying]
Huh?
Shadow!
Oof! Aah!
[Gasp] What the-?
Let's go!
Hey, hold it, Shadow!
You're not going to leave this kid behind?
It doesn't matter to me
what happens to that boy.
[Groan] Hold on!
My friend got arrested 'cause of you!
He's still here!
We have to get him off the island!
Please, will you help me?
I have to rescue Sonic somehow.
He would rescue you if it
was the other way around.
You have to help him, please!
Please, Shadow?
Maria...
[Beeping]
[Long beep]
[Explosions]
Hm!
[Worried sighs]
Mr. Chris...
[Sigh]
Mr. Chris!